Merge-Tree and SharedString ISegment Deprecations (#23323)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/real-grapes-kick.md

---
"@fluidframework/merge-tree": minor
"@fluidframework/sequence": minor
---
---
"section": deprecation
---

Merge-Tree and SharedString ISegment Deprecations

The current ISegment interface over-exposes a number of properties which do not have an external use case, and any external usage could result in damage to the underlying merge-tree including data corruption.

> The only use case that will continue to be supported is determining if a segment is removed. For this purpose we've add the following `function segmentIsRemoved(segment: ISegment): boolean`

Reviewer: Wording nit
```suggestion
The only use case that will continue to be supported is determining if a segment is removed. For this purpose we've added the free function `segmentIsRemoved(segment: ISegment): boolean`.
```

For example, checking if a segment is not removed would change as follows:
``` diff
- if(segment.removedSeq === undefined){
+ if(!segmentIsRemoved(segment)){
```

The following properties are deprecated on ISegment and its implementations:
- clientId
- index
- localMovedSeq
- localRefs
- localRemovedSeq
- localSeq
- movedClientsIds
- movedSeq
- movedSeqs
- ordinal
- removedClientIds
- removedSeq
- seq
- wasMovedOnInsert

> Additionally, the following types are also deprecated, and will become internal:

Reviewer: Just for extra clarity on the implications for consumers, so people who aren't familiar with our API levels know what this means for them.
```suggestion
Additionally, the following types are also deprecated, and will become internal (i.e. users of the Fluid Framework will not have access to them):
```
